Lets now add a few new lifecycle hooks to
our application.
I’ll start out by opening up our bookslist
component file.
I’m going to clean it up first by removing
our interface reference and change our books
back to an array of type any.
Now in order to use our hooks, I’ll first
add them to our import statement after Component,
so we’ll add OnInit, and OnChanges.
Next, we have to make sure to implement each
one of our hooks.
so BooksListComponent implements OnInit comma
OnChanges.
We’ll get a warning under our class name
here because we need to add the corresponding
methods.
So I’ll just add my 2 methods above the
properties.
We’ll start with ngOnInit.
Here we’ll just add a log message letting
us know our component is initialized and also
printing out a property we defined below which
is called booksInStock.
Next we have NgOnChanges.
So right now there’s actually not a good
example I can provide because this is used
in two main instances.
The first is when we’re communicating between
a parent and child component.
And the second is when data has been updated
over the wire like when using websockets or
an Observable which we’ll discuss in our
services section.
But I do want to give you a quick example
illustrating this concept.
So inside my ngOnChanges I’ll log out ‘new
change detected’.
Then below that I’m going to create a new
property that has an array of 2 items called
zebra and moose.
Then I’m going to create a new method right
above called changeMethod which is going to
alter our original array and instead have
2 different animals of cat and dog.
Then below that I’m going to log change
method happened along with the animals.
Then to trigger this I’m going to open up
the corresponding HTML file and then just
add a new button with a click event of changeMethod
that we just created.
Lets save everything now and test this out.
So first off you can see that we are getting
our log message from our ngOnInit.
And then when we go ahead and click on our
button our array is updated and we get a log
message.
But we haven’t activated our NgOnChanges
lifecycle hook.
So the takeaway here is that ngOnChanges is
only triggered when properties have been updated
either between the child and parent component
or when data has been updated via an Observable.
So now lets move on to nested components in
which we’ll see a real example of ngOnChanges
being used.